Dear Mr. Kulumani,

We have received the reports from our advisors on your manuscript, "Systematic Design of Optimal Low-Thrust Transfers for the Three-Body Problem", which you submitted to The Journal of the Astronautical Sciences.

Based on the advice received, I have decided that your manuscript could be reconsidered for publication should you be prepared to incorporate major revisions. When preparing your revised manuscript, you are asked to carefully consider the reviewer comments which can be found below, and submit a list of responses to the comments. You are kindly requested to also check the website for possible reviewer attachment(s).

In order to submit your revised manuscript, please access the following web site:

https://jass.editorialmanager.com/

Your username is: ********
If you forgot your password, you can click the 'Send Login Details' link on the EM Login page.

Please make sure to submit your editable source files (i. e. Word, TeX). We look forward to receiving your revised manuscript before 06 Sep 2018.

With kind regards,
Rodney Anderson, Ph.D.
Associate Editor


COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHOR:

Reviewer #1: I appreciate all of the authors' hard work in organizing two very detailed revisions for this journal submission. I've reviewed the second round of revisions and I believe that all of my concerns have been addressed. My opinion is that this paper is worthy of publication by JAS. Thank you for the interesting read.


Reviewer #2: I thank the authors for their significant additional improvements relative
to the previous version of the manuscript, as well as for the organized
structure of their response. Many of my previous points have been
addressed to a satisfactory degree. The expositional sections of the paper
are in much better shape and there are a number of clarifications and
better acknowledgment of assumptions, pros/cons etc. The parametric
analysis in the first example is perhaps a bit more limited than I hoped
for, but is still a good addition.

---

The primary remaining issue for me stems from my previous remark that
appears at the end of page 10 of the most recent response document. The
author response on page 13 of that document has not resolved my concerns,
but rather it has made the nature of the persisting issue more clear to me
(e.g. through the clarification that the Jacobi energy is not identical for
all points on the (x,xdot) plots.)

I'll first discuss this in terms of merely minor issues for Sec 4.1. This
uses a single stage of reachability analysis, and the initial and final
orbits have different energy levels. However, the corresponding discussion
in the middle paragraph of page 15 remarks upon an "intersection" between
the unstable manifold of the initial orbit (E=-1.58 from Fig 9e) and the
final orbit (E=-1.62 from Fig 9e). The middle of page 18 then contains a
correct description that acknowledges the Jacobi differences, which are
handled by the boundary values of the optimization problem. The following
paragraph then again describes that "a small portion of the invariant
manifold intersects with the target Moon orbit" and alludes that a
"secondary impulsive maneuver" would be necessary to complete the transfer.
This is the first place where the implications of (x,xdot) intersections at
different energy levels are actively discussed, and it seems conceptually
odd to consider targeting impulsive transfers in this way since they do not
require xdot to be matched as a precondition. So, Sec 4.1 would benefit
from a more clear treatment of the ydot/Jacobi dimension, but the results
are still valid, and the Jacobi plot implies a sensible solution (first
raise energy to travel faster, then lower energy to match the target).

The ydot/Jacobi treatment becomes much more problematic in Sec 4.2. Its
second paragraph again describes achieving an "intersection" of the
reachability set and the target orbit, and an intermediate criterion of
minimizing the (x,xdot) distance toward the target. Page 22 line 15 again
describes the objective as enlarging the reachability set on the (x,xdot)
plane to include the intersections of the target manifold, and the
walk-through of Fig 11 discusses closing the gap in terms of (x,xdot)
alone. In Sec 4.1, it was presuambly the case that the reachable set
projected onto (x,xdot) always had the Jacobi value of the target orbit.
This can't be the case for Figs 11-12. Further, the uncontrolled dynamics
are in no way represented or accounted for (which, for example, cause a big
jump between stages 3 and 4 that is not due to the influence of control).
If I'm interpreting this right, the final maneuver is solely to make up for
the large remaining distance in Jacobi energy after (x,xdot) are already
matched.

What is really going on with this method is that we are traversing a
(x,xdot,E) cube from a point on the E=E0 side to a manifold on the opposite
side where E=Etgt, and at each crossing of y=0 the reachable set is a 3D
volume. For Sec 4.1, we only care about the intersection of our reachable
set with the E=Etgt manifold, and so the 2D (x,xdot) reasoning makes sense.
But the multi-use approach is only reasoning about the (x,xdot) plane for a
single horizon with fixed transfer time, presumably with the E dimension
being reduced to whichever values maximize (x,xdot) distance, in which case
the red and blue points in Figs 11-12 might all have different energy
levels. Fig 13c seems to disprove that the (x,xdot) distance is a good
heuristic for receding-horizon use of this scheme, since the resulting path
to the manifold is nothing at all like a straight line to the closest part
of it. Furthermore, the spread of these points is about as much as the
spread of the reachable set in some individual stages such as stage 6. Fig
13e is also not indicative of an efficient transfer; to me, the highly
nonmonotonic behavior suggest that a lot of fuel is being wasted to ensure
that y=0 is crossed at a rather arbitrary sequence of times.

---

As painful as it is to prolong the review process any more, I cannot
approve publication of the paper considering the extent of the problems
with the example of 4.2 (barring that the remaining reviewer and the editor
identify some way in which I am mistaken or have missed something). The
authors have been very accommodating in making extensive updates to the
organization and writing of the paper, but have not adequately addressed
matters relating to the fundamental contributions. What it would take for
me to enthusiastically accept this manuscript is either for the mutli-rev
use of the method to be implemented in a better-reasoned way with a more
demonstrably good solution (I'm not sure how) or for example 4.2 to be
dropped and for the single-use case to be analyzed in more depth (some
steps were taken toward that in this revision). At a very minimum, all the
aspects I have mentioned need to at least be acknowledged as limitations
of the method/as being counter to some of the assumptions of the 
formulation.

Given the significant remaining issues above, I am going to keep further
feedback a bit more brief:

* As mentioned before, at a high level, transferring onto the stable
manifold kind of undercuts the premise of using low thrust to reduce the
transfer time

* The extra analysis behind Fig 8 is a step in the right direction, but in
practice it is hard to make sense of, and might require additional
figures/better color choices. Why are all the reachable sets nearly
straight lines, when we expected some kind of closed path to arise from
sweeping 0 < theta < 360? Why are some progressions of sets so irregular
(e.g. red cross --> blue cross --> green cross --> yellow cross signifying
increase in travel time with fixed large umax, which results in darting
back and forth in the x dimension)? The 25 lines of discussion do not
acknowledge these oddities, nor do they seem to completely line up with the
figure. There seem to remain unexplored/unexplained relationships that
would in practice need to be used to justify parameter choices by anyone
applying this method. 

* As mentioned before, the Poincare illustrations of Fig 2 and 3 would be
more helpful if they were more general. The first could benefit from
showing nonperiodic dynamics, the second from showing a non-circular
reachable boundary (I know the text acknowledges this but please update the
figure). 

* I wonder under what circumstances the reachable set might intersect a
given theta_d in multiple places. This is something that could be looked
into to expand the strength of a submission focusing only on the
single-horizon use of the method.

* There are still some very long single paragraphs in the paper.




********
